The HADataC Metadata Browser presents many different views of the metadata for your data collections. We keep track of **what is doing the measuring**, **what is being measured**, and **how**, in order to provide context for the data. HADataC uses ontologies - hierarchichal structures of concepts described with a standardized vocabulary - in order to maintain both the data and metadata, and also the relationships between them. This page is intended to explain the structure that HADataC utilizes to organize this metadata, so that users can get the most out of the information presented in the Browser. 

### What is doing the measuring?
Sensors and data collection tools are registered and recorded in HADataC so that it is easy to search for all datasets provided by one particular detector or type of detector. The first six buttons on the Metadata Browser display this information, as it has been registered by your organization. The VSTOI and HASNetO ontologies provide the structure for this metadata.

An important distinction with these metadata items is the distinction between "classes" and "individuals". A class is a higher-level concept that fits into the hierarchy of the ontology with relationships to other classes; a class may be as general as "Detector", something more specific such as "Thermometer", or even more specific all the way down to a particular make and model. A project may have multiple instances of that same make and model of thermometer, however - while they each have certain properties in common (such as the manufacturer webpage and model name), each instance will have a unique identifier, typically a serial number. As a result, if a new thermometer of the same type is purchased during the course of the data collection, only the particular properties of that individual need to be registered in HADataC. On the other hand, if the project decides to use a second make of thermometer by a different company, this would be a different class.

The "model hierarchy" buttons show the classes for Platforms, Instruments, and Detectors, respectively. These pages provide two views. One shows the actual subclass relationships from the ontology as a tree, from most general on the left to most specific on the right; subtrees can be expanded and contracted by clicking on nodes, and mousing over a node displays detailed information about that particular concept, if it is available. The second view lists the classes in a collapsible table. The details provided in both views is the same, but two different representations are provided so that you can decide which view allows you to find what you need more easily.

The "list" buttons for Platforms, Instruments, and Detectors display the individuals in a collapsible table. You may see some repeated names on the items in these lists - this indicates that multiple separate instances of the same class are registered in your sensor network. The serial numbers should be unique for each entry, though.

###What is being measured?
HADataC utilizes the Extensible Observation Ontology (OBOE) (https://semtools.ecoinformatics.org/oboe) to help describe measurements in scientific data collections. OBOE provides a standard vocabulary that has already been accepted by scientific communitites, which facilitates data interoperability. Each measurement contains the data itself, but also carries additional information including the units of measurement for the number, the Entity observed, and the Characteristic of that Entity that is being measured. 

For example, if a measurement is taken using a thermometer, we also need to know whether the measurement is in Fahrenheit, Celsius, or Kelvin. The Characteristic measured is Temperature, and the Entity is the thing whose temperature we are observing - Air, Water, some laboratory Sample, etc.

Entities and Characteristics are very general. For more specificity, HADataC also has "EntityCharacteristics", which are what their name implies - a matching of an Entity and a Characteristic. In the above example, neither "Characteristic: Temperature" nor "Entity: Indoor Air" could uniquely identify a dataset of a thermometer's recordings of room temperatures, but the EntityCharacteristic pair of these can. Therefore, each EntityCharacteristic should have exactly one Entity and exactly one Characteristic.